tonight is November the 1st and here in
Sagada in fact across the Philippines
that means that it's the Day of the Dead
that's the day when people come to this
graveyard on a hillside and uh celebrate
the lives of their relatives
the people light fires to honor and warm
the departed inviting their souls to
commune with them
no matter how unscientific it sounds
this this idea that there's some kind of
soul or spirit or animating force that
makes those what we are and that
persists after our death is is common
virtually every culture every religion
has that deeply-held belief and there's
a reason for that because it feels right
I mean just think about it hard to
accept that when you die you will just
stop existing and that you are your life
the essence of you is just really
something that emerges from inner
inanimate baggage stuff
my mother I want a Nana spirit stir
and I own card one in woodland
I'm of a Kadena Nabokov an Alameda it
away silently
ready
see that these people feel not only
they're going to celebrate the lives
their relatives but they're coming in
some sense to to communicate with their
relatives even though their physical
bodies have died are still in some sense
here and when you think about it that's
not so easy to dismiss if we are to
state that science can explain
everything about us then it's incumbent
on science to to answer the question
what is it that animates living boomers
what is the difference between a piece
of rock that's carved into a gravestone
and me